EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
People in the United States were spending more money dining at restaurants than ever before, with foodservice sales totaling $770 billion in 2019, a 4.4% increase from 2018 (Stribling, 2020) and projected at $899 billion in 2020 (National Restaurant Association, 2020). This shows the restaurant industry's importance in our society and, as a result, competition is high. Therefore, any restaurant that does not gain a competitive advantage or adopt strategies to keep the business afloat may suffer a loss of customers to their competitors, which could lead to a decline in revenue and closure (DiPietro, 2016; Gagić et al., 2013).
Although restaurants can also fail (close) or succeed (stay open) for various external reasons, such as economic factors, there is a need to analyze other internal factors that influence closure. This is where the Yelp Dataset comes in. This project analyzes the Yelp 2019 Dataset to predict the likelihood of restaurant closure based on different attributes. Attributes in the dataset include but are not limited to parking, table service, Wi-Fi, ambiance, price range, wheelchair accessibility, acceptance of credit cards or cash only service, categories (Fast Food, Italian, Mexican, Chinese, American, etc.), family accommodations, star ratings, reviews and more. These attributes point to the demand for intangible and tangible restaurant experiences by customers. First, the importance of these experiences and how they affect restaurant failure were highlighted through a literature review. 
The analysis of the dataset started with data cleaning using Python. The next step was data visualization using SAS Enterprise Miner and Tableau. Finally, predictive models were developed using SAS Enterprise Miner, the most important predictors were identified, and the best model was selected based on validation misclassification rate.
The Selection Tree with High-Performance Support Vector Machine was the best model with 81.24% accuracy. As indicated by the Selection Tree in this model, the five most important predictors of restaurant closure are Review Counts, Chain Counts, Entertainment, Is Chain (meaning if the restaurant is a chain or not), and Good for Dinner. Therefore, this study recommends that restaurants at high risk of closure provide entertainment such as background music or improve the existing ones, and promotions could be put in place to encourage customers to leave reviews on Yelp after visiting the restaurant. Also, restaurants that experience low traffic at dinner time and are considered "not good for dinner" can tailor their menu options to suit customer needs.
